What’s the project’s current status?
------------------------------------

Have a look a the “Things that work” section in the README.

If you’re interested in how active the project is, check the commit history on
http://github.com/scy/levitation/



So, you’re running MediaWiki with Git as backend?
-------------------------------------------------

No. Currently, Levitation has nothing to do with _running_ MediaWiki at all. I
seriously doubt it is worth the effort to adapt MediaWiki for a Git backend.
Instead, a new frontend should be developed.



Okay, so you’re planning to fork Wikipedia?
-------------------------------------------

Me? Probably not. But I know some guys who might be interested in doing it. And
since I think that yet another centralistic Wikipedia is not the solution, I’m
experimenting in a different direction. Namely, a distributed Wikipedia.



But with Git, won’t every contributor need gigabytes of history?
----------------------------------------------------------------

First, if you haven’t heard about “git clone --depth” yet, have a look at it.

Second, my vision is to have 5 to 20 “Wikipedias” per language that focus on
different aspects and have different policies. These would be hosted by someone
having enough resources to do that, and editing articles would be done via a
web interface as it is now.

The difference to today is, that the Wikipedias can easily transfer content
between each other, including history and using Git’s powerful merging
capabilities. Additionally, everyone who wants to clone the whole Wikipedia can
do it, with full history, and without waiting for a monthly dump. Instead,
pulling from Wikipedia gives you the content as it was at that second.

Also, Git developers are currently working on the possibility to retrieve just
parts of the repository.



Would Levitation allow to incrementally import changes made in the current
centralistic Wikipedia into one’s local Git clone?
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

I think so. There are some possible issues though.

If, for example, you would update only one article’s history and then another
one’s, history would be in the wrong order and need to be rewritten. Git can do
that easily, but the incremental importing tool would have to consider that.

Another problem could be that articles you have in your local clone might get
deleted upstream. If they are, they no longer show up in dumps _at_all_.



Would Levitation allow it to make changes to the local clone and maintain these
changes even when importing new stuff from the current centralistic Wikipedia?
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Yes, that’s something that happens all the time in distributed development.
Keep the upstream Wikipedia in one branch, your changes in another, and
frequently rebase or merge. With things like git-rerere, you can minimize the
amount of manual merging conflicts.



Would Levitation allow it to make changes to the local clone and push them back
to the current centralistic Wikipedia?
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Absolutely, just like git-svn does. Nobody has written that code yet, and I
doubt that _I_ will do it, but it should be pretty straightforward.



Why are you doing this anyway?
------------------------------

Because I love Git and the development model DVCSs allow, because I’m fed up
with de.wikipedia’s attitudes on policy and because I think using Git is one of
the better solutions. I would hate it if other people developed another
software that’s essentially as flawed as the current Wikipedia model.



How can I say “thank you”?
--------------------------

Have a look at http://scytale.name/wishlist/, which is continously updated. I
also like amazon.de gift certificates. :)

If you, like me, don’t have that much money to spend it on other people,
writing patches and spreading the word about Levitation is an option as well.



I have a question that’s not answered here.
-------------------------------------------

Check http://scytale.name/contact/ or send me a patch to this FAQ containing
your question. :)
